releases: add tidb 5.1.4 release notes (#7560)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-5.1.4.md

---
title: TiDB 5.1.4 Release Notes
category: Releases
---

# TiDB 5.1.4 Release Notes

Release Date: xx, 2022

TiDB version: 5.1.4

## Compatibility changes

> 

Reviewer: - Change the default value of system variable [`tidb_analyze_version`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v5.1/system-variables#tidb_analyze_version-new-in-v510) to 1. [#31748](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31748)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- TiKV configured with `storage.enable-ttl = true` is not allowed to start with TiDB.
```

Reviewer 3: 请添加对应的 issue @sticnarf

Reviewer 2: 加上了

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Set `max-message-bytes` default to 10M, and use the min value with topic and broker to initialize the producer. [#4041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4041)
```

## Feature enhancements

## __unsorted

+ TiDB

    (dup) - Fix wrong results of the `microsecond` function in vectorized expressions [#29244](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29244)
    - Set default value of tidb_analyze_version to 1 in v5.1 and v5.2 [#31748](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31748)
    - Fix a panic that may happen when using `on duplicate key update`. [#28078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28078)
    - Fix `MaxDays` and `MaxBackups` not working for slow log. [#25716](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25716)
    - Fix an issue that adding index panics by chance. [#27687](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27687)
    - Fix wrong result for join with enum type [#27831](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27831)
    (dup) - Fix the panic when using the `CASE WHEN` function on the `ENUM` data type [#29357](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29357)
    - Fix a memory leak bug when using @@tidb_analyze_version = 2 [#29305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29305)
    (dup) - Fix wrong results of the `hour` function in vectorized expression [#28643](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28643)

>     - Fix a batch client bug that recycle idle connection may block sending requests in some rare cases. [#28345](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28345)

Reviewer 3: No issue

    - move verify_checksum to import-thread from apply-thread. [#11239](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11239)
    - Fix label leaking of thread metrics [#11195](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11195)
    (dup) - Fix the issue of TiCDC panic that occurs when the downstream database is missing [#11123](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11123)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that CDC adds scan retries frequently due to the Congest error [#11082](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11082)
    - Fix the issue #9714. Now RaftClient will check the size of RaftMessage.extra_ctx and RaftMessage.message.context size as part of its message size estimate. [#9714](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/9714)
    - resolved_ts: fix coroutine leaking [#10965](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10965)
    - Hide untouched storage commands' metrics in grafana dashboard [#11681](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11681)
    - resolved_ts: fix coroutine leaking [#10965](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10965)
    - improve raft client error log report [#11959](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11959)

>     - Avoid false "GC can not work" alert under low write flow. [#10664](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10664)

Reviewer 3: No issue

        (dup) (dup) - Fix the issue that Kafka may send excessively large messages by setting the default value of `max-message-bytes` to `10M` [#3081](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3081)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that TiCDC replication task might terminate when the upstream TiDB instance unexpectedly exits [#3061](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3061)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that TiCDC process might panic when TiKV sends duplicate requests to the same Region [#2386](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2386)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that the volume of Kafka messages generated by TiCDC is not constrained by `max-message-size` [#2962](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2962)
        - Nond [#2983](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2983)
        - Add metrics to observe incremental scan remaining time [#2985](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2985)
        (dup) - Fix the issue that TiCDC sync task might pause when an error occurs during writing a Kafka message [#2978](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2978)

## Improvements

+ TiDB

>     - planner: support column range partition pruning for builtin function IN [#26739](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26739)

Reviewer: - Support column range partition pruning for builtin function `IN`. [#26739](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26739)
    - Improve the accurancy of the memory usage tracking for 'IndexJoin'. [#28650](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28650)

    - Track the memory usage of IndexJoin more accurate. [#28650](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28650)

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  + PD
    (dup) - Speed up the exit process of schedulers [#4146](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4146)
```

+ TiFlash

>     - support functions of ADDDATE() and DATE_ADD() pushed down to tiflash

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - support functions of ADDDATE() and DATE_ADD() pushed down to tiflash
    - Support `INET6_ATON` and `INET6_NTOA` in TiFlash.
    - Support `INET_ATON` and `INET_NTOA` in TiFlash.
```

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

+ Tools

    + TiCDC
    
        - Add exponential backoff mechanism for restarting a changefeed. [#3329](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3329)
        - Optimize checkpoint lag when capturing many tables. [#3900](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3900) 
        - Add metrics to observe incremental scan remaining time [#2985](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2985) 
        - Reduce the frequency of CDC reporting "EventFeed retry rate limited" logs when TiKV  encounters OOM error [#4006](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4006)
```

## Bug Fixes

+ TiDB

>     - Fix the bug that indexHashJoin may return the error `send on closed channel`. [#31129](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31129)

Reviewer: - Fix the memory leak bug when using analyze version 2(@@tidb_analyze_version = 2). [#29305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29305)
    - Fix the issue that `MaxDays` and `MaxBackups` not working for slow log. [#25716](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25716)
    - Fix the panic that may happen when using `ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE`. [#28078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28078)
    - Fix the wrong result when using join with enum type [#27831](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27831)
    - Fix the issue that `IndexHashJoin` may return the error `send on closed channel`. [#31129](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31129)
    - Fix the issue that recycle idle connection of ['BatchCommands'](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-configuration-file/#max-batch-size) may block sending requests in some rare cases. [#27678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27678)

    (dup) - Fix the data inconsistency issue caused by incorrect usage of lazy existence check and untouched key optimization [#30410](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30410)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that window functions might return different results when using a transaction or not [#29947](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29947)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the length information is wrong when casting `Decimal` to `String` [#29417](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29417)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the `GREATEST` function returns inconsistent results due to different values of `tidb_enable_vectorized_expression` (set to `on` or `off`) [#29434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29434)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the planner might cache invalid plans for `join` in some cases [#28087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28087)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

+ TiKV

    - Fixes the bug that unsafe_destroy_range does not get executed when GC worker is busy [#11903](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11903)
    - Fix potential high latency caused by destroying a peer [#10210](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10210)
    - Fix wrong `any_value` result when there are regions returning empty result [#11735](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11735)
    - Fix the problem that destroying an uninitialized replica may cause a stalled replica be created again. [#10533](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10533)
    - Fix metadata corruption in an unlikely condition that prepare merge is triggered after new election without informing an isolated peer [#11526](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11526)
    - Fix deadlock in some rare cases that futures get resolved too fast [#11549](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11549)
    - Skip profiling sample in glibc, pthread, libgcc to avoid possible deadlock and memory leak in profiling [#11108](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11108)
    - Fix the bug that prewrite request retrying in pessimistic transactions have risk to affect data consistency in some rare cases. [#11187](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11187)
    - Fix resource-metering.enabled config does not work [#11235](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11235)
    - Fix coroutine leaking in the resolved_ts module.  [#10965](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10965)
    - Avoid false "GC can not work" alert under low write flow. [#9910](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/9910)
```

+ TiFlash

>     - Fix str_to_date() function incorrectly handles leading zeros when parsing Microseconds

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Fix `str_to_date()` function incorrectly handles leading zeros when parsing Microseconds
```

    - Fix the problem of TiFlash crashing when the memory limit is enabled

>     - Align unix_timestamp behavior with TiDB and mysql when input is earlier than 1970-01-01 00:00:01 UTC

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Align `unix_timestamp` behavior with TiDB and MySQL when input is earlier than 1970-01-01 00:00:01 UTC
```

    - Fix potential data inconsistency when widen pk column type if pk is handle
    - fix the issue that comparison between Decimal may cause overflow and report `Can't compare`
    - Fix the issue of unexpected error that `3rd arguments of function substringUTF8 must be constants.`
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash fails to start up under platform without library `nsl`

>     - release-note

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Fix a cast to decimal overflow bug.
    - Fix the bug that castStringAsReal has different behaivor between TiFlash and TiKV/TiDB.
    - Fix random `EstablishMPPConnection` fail after TiFlash server restart.
    - Fix the problem that obsolete data cannot be reclaimed after set TiFlash replica to 0.
    - Fix the inconsistent behavior of `CastStringAsDecimal` between TiFlash and TiKV/TiDB.
    - Fix the bug that results of `where <string>` is wrong because it will be converted to `int` type.
    - Fix TiFlash randomly crash when an MPP query is killed.
    - Fix unexpected error of `Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)`.
```

+ PD

    - Fix the bug that the region scatterer may generate the schedule with too few peers. [#4565](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4565)
    (dup) - Fix a panic issue that occurs after the TiKV node is removed [#4344](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4344)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that operator can get blocked due to down store [#3353](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3353)
    - Fix the bug that region statistics are not updated after `flow-round-by-digit` change. [#4295](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4295)
    - (dup) Fix slow leader election caused by stucked region syncer [#3936](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3936)

>     - (dup) Support that the evict leader scheduler can schedule regions with unhealthy peers [#4093](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4093)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - (dup) Support that the evict leader scheduler can schedule regions with unhealthy peers [#4093](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4093)
    - (dup) - Fix the issue that the hotspot cache cannot be cleared when the Region heartbeat is less than 60 seconds [#4390](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4390)
```

>     - (dup) Support that the evict leader scheduler can schedule regions with unhealthy peers [#4093](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4093)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Fix a bug that MySQL sink will generate duplicated replace SQL if `batch-replace-enable` is disabled [#4501](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4501)
        - Fix kv client cached region metric could be negative [#4300](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4300)
        - Fix the problem that TiCDC cannot send messages when `min.insync.replicas` is less than `replication-factor` [#3994](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3994)
        - Fix the potential panic issue that occurs when changefeed info is removed from etcd [#3128](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3128)
        - Fix a bug that checkpointTs advances unexpectedly [#3545](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3545)
        - Fix a bug that changefeed gets stuck when table scheduling [#4055](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4055)    
        - Fix syntax error if DDL has a special comment [#3755](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3755)    
        - Fix a bug in EtcdWorker that could hang the owner or processor [#3750](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3750)    
        - Fix the issue of changefeed resuming automatically after upgrading cluster [#3473](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3473)    
        - Fix the bug that TiCDC does not support other types except string and integer type under the TiCDC amend mechanism [#3793](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3793)     
        - Fix a bug that owner get stuck when PD leader shutdowns and transfers to new node [#3615](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3615)    
        - Fix kvclient takes too long time to recover when TiKV node shutdown  [#3191](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3191) 

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        + Fix a bug that caused region unbalanced after restoring [#30425](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30425), [#31034](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31034)
    
    + TiDB Lightning

      + Fix the bug that lightning doesn't report error if s3 storage path not exist [#30674](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30674)
```

---
title: TiDB 5.1.4 Release Notes
category: Releases
---

# TiDB 5.1.4 Release Notes

Release Date: xx, 2022

TiDB version: 5.1.4

## Compatibility changes

## Feature enhancements

## __unsorted

+ TiDB

    (dup) - Fix wrong results of the `microsecond` function in vectorized expressions [#29244](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29244)
    - Set default value of tidb_analyze_version to 1 in v5.1 and v5.2 [#31748](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31748)
    - Fix a panic that may happen when using `on duplicate key update`. [#28078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28078)
    - Fix `MaxDays` and `MaxBackups` not working for slow log. [#25716](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25716)
    - Fix an issue that adding index panics by chance. [#27687](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27687)
    - Fix wrong result for join with enum type [#27831](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27831)
    (dup) - Fix the panic when using the `CASE WHEN` function on the `ENUM` data type [#29357](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29357)

>     - Fix a memory leak bug when using @@tidb_analyze_version = 2 [#29305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29305)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix a memory leak bug when using @@tidb_analyze_version = 2 [#29305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/3776)
```

Reviewer: 'On Call #3776' is about the oncall, it is nothing related to Github Issue #3776.

Reviewer 7: @tiancaiamao Could you help provide the issue link for https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29305. Thanks.

    - Increase the max supported depth of expression/plan tree in dag request from 100 to 200.
    - Fixed the inconsistent behavior of CastStringAsDecimal between tiflash and tidb/tikv.
    - Fix the bug that results of `where <string>` is wrong because it will be converted to int type.
    - Fix tiflash randomly crash when a mpp query is killed.
    - Fix the issue of unexpected error that `Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)`
    - Support INET6_ATON and INET6_NTOA in TiFlash.
    - Support INET_ATON and INET_NTOA in TiFlash.
    - expand streams after aggregation

+ PD

    - fix the problem that the hot cache cannot be emptied when the interval is less than 60 [#4390](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4390)
    - speed scheduler exit [#4146](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4146)

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Fix a bug that MySQL sink will generate duplicated replace SQL if `batch-replace-enable` is disabled. [#4501](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4501)
        - Add exponential backoff mechanism for restarting a changefeed. [#3329](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3329)

>         - Fix kv client cached region metric could be negative. [#4294](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/pull/4294)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix kv client cached region metric could be negative. [#4300](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4300)
```

## Compatibility changes
- TiKV configured with `storage.enable-ttl = true` cannot be used with TiDB any more. [#27303](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27303)
+ TiDB

    - Change the default value of system variable [`tidb_analyze_version`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v5.1/system-variables#tidb_analyze_version-new-in-v510) to 1. [#31748](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31748)

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Set `max-message-bytes` default to 10M, and use the min value with topic and broker to initialize the producer. [#4041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4041)

## Feature enhancements

+ TiDB

    - Support column range partition pruning for built-in function `IN`. [#26739](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26739)
    - Improve the accuracy of the memory usage tracking for 'IndexJoin'. [#28650](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28650)

+ TiKV

    - Update procfs to 0.12.0 [#11702](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11702)
    - Improve raft client error log report [#11959](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11959)
    - Avoid false "GC can not work" alert under low write flow. [#10664](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10664)

+ TiFlash

>     - support functions of ADDDATE() and DATE_ADD() pushed down to tiflash

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Support pushing down `ADDDATE()` and `DATE_ADD()` to TiFlash
    - Support pushing down `INET6_ATON` and `INET6_NTOA` to TiFlash
    - Support pushing down `INET_ATON` and `INET_NTOA` to TiFlash
```

    (dup) - Fix the issue that the planner might cache invalid plans for `join` in some cases [#28087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28087)
    (dup) - Fix wrong results of the `microsecond` function in vectorized expressions [#29244](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29244)
    (dup) - Fix the TiDB panic when executing the `ALTER TABLE.. ADD INDEX` statement in some cases [#27687](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27687)
    (dup) - Fix wrong results of the `hour` function in vectorized expression [#28643](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28643)
    (dup) - Fix a bug that the availability detection of MPP node does not work in some corner cases [#3118](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/3118)
    (dup) - Fix the `DATA RACE` issue when assigning `MPP task ID` [#27952](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27952)
    (dup) - Fix the `INDEX OUT OF RANGE` error for a MPP query after deleting an empty `dual table` [#28250](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28250)
    (dup) - Fix the issue of false positive error log `invalid cop task execution summaries length` for MPP queries [#1791](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/1791)

+ TiFlash

>     - Fix `str_to_date()` function incorrectly handles leading zeros when parsing Microseconds

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `str_to_date()` function incorrectly handles leading zeros when parsing microseconds
```

>     - Fix the problem of TiFlash crashing when the memory limit is enabled

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Fix the TiFlash crash problem when the memory limit is enabled
```

>     - Align `unix_timestamp` behavior with TiDB and MySQL when input is earlier than 1970-01-01 00:00:01 UTC

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Fix the inconsistent behavior of the `unix_timestamp` function between TiFlash and TiDB/MySQL when the timestamp is earlier than `1970-01-01 00:00:01 UTC`
```

>     - Fix potential data inconsistency when widen pk column type if pk is handle

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Fix the potential data inconsistency caused by widening the primary key column when the primary key is handle
```

>     - Fix the issue that comparison between Decimal may cause overflow and report `Can't compare`

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that comparison between decimal may cause overflow and report the `Can't compare` error
```

    - Fix the issue of unexpected error that `3rd arguments of function substringUTF8 must be constants.`
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash fails to start up under platform without library `nsl`

> 

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Fix the overflow bug when casting to the decimal type
    - Fix the inconsistent behavior of the `castStringAsReal` function between TiFlash and TiDB/TiKV
    - Fix the bug of random `EstablishMPPConnection` failures after the TiFlash server restarts
    - Fix the issue that obsolete data cannot be reclaimed after setting the number of TiFlash replicas to 0
    - Fix the inconsistent behavior of the `CastStringAsDecimal` function between TiFlash and TiDB/TiKV
    - Fix the incorrect result of `where <string>` caused by the string being converted to integer
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash randomly crashes after an MPP query is terminated
    - Fix the unexpected error of `Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)`
```

Added by https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/7560#discussion_r805672008

Reviewer 8: cast ... to `DECIMAL`. Rest LGTM

        - Fix the issue that TiCDC replication task might terminate when the upstream TiDB instance unexpectedly exits [#3061](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3061)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC process might panic when TiKV sends duplicate requests to the same Region [#2386](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2386)
        - Fix the issue that the volume of Kafka messages generated by TiCDC is not constrained by `max-message-size` [#2962](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2962)
        - Fix the issue that Kafka may send excessively large messages by setting the default value of `max-message-bytes` to `10M` [#3081](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3081)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC sync task might pause when an error occurs during writing a Kafka message [#2978](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2978)

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix the potential issue that Regions might be unevenly distributed after a restore operation is finished [#30425](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30425)

> 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion

    + TiDB Binlog

        - Fix the issue that DBaaS importing CSV fails with InvalidRange if CSV file size is about 256MB and `strict-format` is `true` [#27763](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27763)

```

    + TiDB Lightning

>         - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning does not report errors when the S3 storage path does not exist [#28031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28031) [#30709](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30709)

Reviewer 9: + Binlog

        - Lightning: DBaaS import csv fails with InvalidRange if CSV file size is about 256MB when strict-format is true[#27763](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27763)

---
title: TiDB 5.1.4 Release Notes
category: Releases
---

# TiDB 5.1.4 Release Notes

Release Date: xx, 2022

TiDB version: 5.1.4

## Compatibility changes

+ TiDB

    - Change the default value of the system variable [`tidb_analyze_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_version-new-in-v510) from `2` to `1` [#31748](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31748)

+ TiKV

    - TiKV configured with `storage.enable-ttl = true` rejects requests from TiDB. [#27303](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27303)

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Set the default value of `max-message-bytes` to 10M [#4041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4041)

## Feature enhancements

+ TiDB

>     - Support partition pruning for the built-in `IN` expression in the Range type partition [#26739](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26739)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Support partition pruning for the built-in `IN` expression in the Range partition tables [#26739](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26739)
```

        - Reduce checkpoint lag when capturing multiple tables. [#3900](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3900)
        - Add metrics for observing the remaining time of incremental scan [#2985](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2985)
        - Reduce the frequency of printing "EventFeed retry rate limited" logs when TiKV encounters OOM errors [#4006](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4006)

        (dup) - Reduce the frequency of CDC reporting "EventFeed retry rate limited" logs when TiKV  encounters OOM error [#4006](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4006)
        (dup)- Optimize checkpoint lag when capturing many tables [#3900](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3900)
        (dup) - Add more Promethous and Grafana monitoring metrics and alerts, including `no owner alert`, `mounter row`, `table sink total row`, and `buffer sink total row` [#4054](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4054) [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606)
        (dup) - Optimize rate limiting control on TiKV reloads to reduce gPRC congestion during changefeed initialization [#3110](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3110)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

>     - Fix the memory leak bug that occurs when the system variable `tidb_analyze_version` is set to `2` [#29305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29305)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix a memory leak bug that occurs when the system variable `tidb_analyze_version` is set to `2` [#29305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29305)
```

    - Fix the issue that the `MaxDays` and `MaxBackups` configurations do not take effect for the slow log [#25716](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25716)
    - Fix a panic issue that might occur when using `ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE` [#28078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28078)

>     - Fix the wrong result that might occur when performing `JOIN` with `ENUM` type columns [#27831](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27831)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix the wrong result that might occur when performing `JOIN` on `ENUM` type columns [#27831](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27831)
```

    - Fix a bug that `IndexHashJoin` might return the `send on closed channel` error [#31129](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31129)

>     - Fix the issue that using the [`BatchCommands`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-configuration-file/#max-batch-size) might block sending TiDB requests to TiKV in some rare cases [#27678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27678)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that using the [`BatchCommands`]/tidb-configuration-file/#max-batch-size) API might block sending TiDB requests to TiKV in some rare cases [#27678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27678)
```

    (dup) - Fix the `DATA RACE` issue when assigning `MPP task ID` [#27952](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27952)
    (dup) - Fix the `INDEX OUT OF RANGE` error for a MPP query after deleting an empty `dual table` [#28250](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28250)
    (dup) - Fix the issue of false positive error log `invalid cop task execution summaries length` for MPP queries [#1791](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/1791)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix `str_to_date()` function incorrectly handles leading zeros when parsing Microseconds
    - Fix the problem of TiFlash crashing when the memory limit is enabled
    - Align `unix_timestamp` behavior with TiDB and MySQL when input is earlier than 1970-01-01 00:00:01 UTC
    - Fix potential data inconsistency when widen pk column type if pk is handle
    - Fix the issue that comparison between Decimal may cause overflow and report `Can't compare`
    - Fix the issue of unexpected error that `3rd arguments of function substringUTF8 must be constants.`
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash fails to start up under platform without library `nsl`

> + TiKV
> 
>     - Fix the bug that unsafe_destroy_range does not get executed when GC worker is busy [#11903](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11903)
>     - Fix potential high latency caused by destroying a peer [#10210](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10210)
>     - Fix wrong `any_value` result when there are regions returning empty result [#11735](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11735)
>     - Fix the problem that destroying an uninitialized replica may cause a stalled replica be created again. [#10533](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10533)
>     - Fix metadata corruption in an unlikely condition that prepare merge is triggered after new election without informing an isolated peer [#11526](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11526)
>     - Fix deadlock in some rare cases that futures get resolved too fast [#11549](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11549)
>     - Skip profiling sample in glibc, pthread, libgcc to avoid possible deadlock and memory leak in profiling [#11108](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11108)
>     - Fix the bug that prewrite request retrying in pessimistic transactions have risk to affect data consistency in some rare cases. [#11187](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11187)
>     - Fix resource-metering.enabled config does not work [#11235](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11235)
>     - Fix coroutine leaking in the resolved_ts module.  [#10965](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10965)
>     - Avoid false "GC can not work" alert under low write flow. [#9910](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/9910)
>     - Make tikv-ctl detect raft db correctly [#11393](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11393)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
+ TiKV

    - Fix the bug that TiKV cannot delete a range of data (`unsafe_destroy_range` cannot be executed) when GC worker is busy [#11903](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11903)
    - Fix the issue that destroying a peer might cause high latency [#10210](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10210)
    - Fix a bug that `any_value` function returns wrong result when regions are empty [#11735](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11735)
    - Fix the issue that deleting an uninitialized replica might cause to create a stale replica again. [#10533](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10533)
    - Fix metadata corruption issue when `Prepare Merge` is triggered after the new election is finished but the isolated peer is not informed [#11526](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11526)
    - Fix the dead lock issue that happens occasionally when coroutines run too fast  [#11549](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11549)
    - Avoid the potential dead lock and memory leak issues when profiling flame graphs [#11108](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11108)
    - Fix the data consistency issue when retrying a prewrite request in pessimistic transactions [#11187](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11187)
    - Fix a bug that the configuration `resource-metering.enabled` does not work [#11235](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11235)
    - Fix the issue that some coroutines leak in `resolved_ts` [#10965](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10965)
    - Avoid the false "GC can not work" alert under low write flow [#9910](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/9910)
    - Fix a bug that tikv-ctl cannot return the correct region-related information [#11393](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11393)
```

Reviewer 8: L109: Fix the bug that TiKV cannot delete a range of data (`unsafe_destroy_range` cannot be executed) when the GC worker is busy
L111: Fix a bug that the `any_value` function returns wrong result when regions are empty
L112: Fix the issue that deleting an uninitialized replica might cause an old replica to be recreated
L113: Fix the metadata corruption issue when `Prepare Merge` is triggered after the new election is finished but the isolated peer is not informed
L116: Fix the data inconsistency issue when retrying a prewrite request in pessimistic transactions

Reviewer 11: "写入流量" has the same meaning to "Write flow" in [TiKV Monitoring Metrics](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/grafana-tikv-dashboard#rocksdb---kvraft), so let's keep the "flow" for consistency.

---
title: TiDB 5.1.4 Release Notes
category: Releases
---

# TiDB 5.1.4 Release Notes

Release Date: xx, 2022

TiDB version: 5.1.4

## Compatibility changes

+ TiDB

>     - Change the default value of the system variable [`tidb_analyze_version`](/system-variables#tidb_analyze_version-new-in-v510) from `2` to `1` [#31748](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31748)

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
    - Change the default value of the system variable [`tidb_analyze_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_version-new-in-v510) from `2` to `1` [#31748](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31748)
```

        - Fix the memory leak issue after processing DDLs [#3174](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3174)
        - Fix the issue that changefeed does not fail fast enough when the ErrGCTTLExceeded error occurs [#3111](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3111)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC replication task might terminate when the upstream TiDB instance unexpectedly exits [#3061](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3061)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC process might panic when TiKV sends duplicate requests to the same Region [#2386](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2386)
        - Fix the issue that the volume of Kafka messages generated by TiCDC is not constrained by `max-message-size` [#2962](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2962)
        - Fix the issue that Kafka may send excessively large messages by setting the default value of `max-message-bytes` to `10M` [#3081](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3081)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC sync task might pause when an error occurs during writing a Kafka message [#2978](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2978)

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - Fix the potential issue that Region distribution might be uneven after a restore operation is finished [#30425](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30425)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        - Fix the potential issue that Regions might be unevenly distributed after a restore operation is finished [#30425](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30425)
```

---
title: TiDB 5.1.4 Release Notes
category: Releases
---

# TiDB 5.1.4 Release Notes

Release Date: xx, 2022

TiDB version: 5.1.4

## Compatibility changes

+ TiDB

    - Change the default value of the system variable [`tidb_analyze_version`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_version-new-in-v510) from `2` to `1` [#31748](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31748)
    - If TiKV configured with `storage.enable-ttl = true`, the requests from TiDB are rejected [#27303](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27303)

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Set the default value of `max-message-bytes` to 10M [#4041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4041)

## Feature enhancements

+ TiDB

    - Support partition pruning for the built-in `IN` expression in Range partition tables [#26739](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26739)
    - Improve the accuracy of tracking memory usage when `IndexJoin` is executed [#28650](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28650)

+ TiKV

    - Update the proc filesystem (procfs) to v0.12.0 [#11702](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11702)

>     - Improve the error log report in the raft client module [#11959](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11959)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Improve the error log report in the raft client module [#11959](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11959)
    - Increase the speed of inserting SST files by moving the verification process to the `Import` thread pool from the `Apply` thread pool [#11239](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11239)
```

    - Increase the max supported depth of expression or plan tree in a DAG request from `100` to `200`

+ PD

   - Speed up the exit process of schedulers [#4146](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4146)

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Add the exponential backoff mechanism for restarting a changefeed. [#3329](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3329)
        - Add metrics for observing the remaining time of incremental scan [#2985](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2985)
        - Reduce the count of "EventFeed retry rate limited" logs [#4006](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4006)
        - Reduce the replication latency when replicating many tables [#3900](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3900)
        - Add more Promethous and Grafana monitoring metrics and alerts, including `no owner alert`, `mounter row`, `table sink total row`, and `buffer sink total row` [#4054](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4054) [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606)
        - Optimize rate limiting control on TiKV reloads to reduce gPRC congestion during changefeed initialization [#3110](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3110)

> 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Reduce the time for the KV client to recover when a TiKV store is down [#3191](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3191)

```

    - Fix the issue that executing the `INSERT ... SELECT ... ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE` statement gets panic [#28078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28078)
    - Fix the wrong result that might occur when performing `JOIN` on `ENUM` type columns [#27831](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27831)
    - Fix the issue that INDEX HASH JOIN returns the `send on closed channel` error [#31129](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31129)
    - Fix the issue that using the [`BatchCommands`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#max-batch-size) API might block sending TiDB requests to TiKV in some rare cases [#27678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27678)
    - Fix the issue of potential data index inconsistency in optimistic transaction mode [#30410](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30410)
    - Fix the issue that window functions might return different results when using a transaction or not [#29947](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29947)
    - Fix the issue that the length information is wrong when casting `Decimal` to `String` [#29417](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29417)

>     - Fix the issue that the `GREATEST` function returns inconsistent results due to different values of `tidb_enable_vectorized_expression` (set to `on` or `off`) [#29434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29434)

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `GREATEST` function returns incorrect result that occurs when setting the `tidb_enable_vectorized_expression` vectorized expression to `off` [#29434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29434)
```

    - Fix the issue that the planner might cache invalid plans for `join` in some cases [#28087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28087)
    - Fix wrong results of the `microsecond` function in vectorized expressions [#29244](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29244)
    - Fix the TiDB panic when executing the `ALTER TABLE.. ADD INDEX` statement in some cases [#27687](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27687)

>     - Fix wrong results of the `hour` function in vectorized expression [#28643](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28643)

Reviewer 12: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix a bug that the availability detection of MPP node does not work in some corner cases [#3118](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/3118)
    - Fix the `DATA RACE` issue when assigning `MPP task ID` [#27952](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27952)
    - Fix the `INDEX OUT OF RANGE` error for a MPP query after deleting an empty `dual table` [#28250](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28250)
    - Fix the issue of false positive error log `invalid cop task execution summaries length` for MPP queries [#1791](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/1791)
  + PD

>     (dup) - Speed up the exit process of schedulers [#4146](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4146)

Reviewer 11: @nolouch 这一条（83 行，84 行）的内容与 ID 和 47 行的一样，是否只需要保留上面的部分呢？

Reviewer 5: @en-jin19  这个应该属于 enhancement, 可以把下面 bug fix 的去掉，之保留上面部分。

    - Fix the potential data inconsistency caused by widening the primary key column when the primary key is handle
    - Fix the overflow bug and the issue of reporting `Can't compare` error when comparing data in the `DECIMAL` data type
    - Fix the unexpected error of `3rd arguments of function substringUTF8 must be constants.`
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash fails to start on platforms without the `nsl` library
    - Fix the overflow bug when casting data to the `DECIMAL` data type
    - (dup) Fix the issue that the `castStringAsReal` behavior is inconsistent in TiFlash and in TiDB/TiKV
    - (dup) Fix the issue that TiFlash might return the `EstablishMPPConnection` error after it is restarted
    - Fix the issue that obsolete data cannot be reclaimed after setting the number of TiFlash replicas to 0
    - (dup) Fix the issue that the `CastStringAsDecimal` behavior is inconsistent in TiFlash and in TiDB/TiKV
    - (dup) Fix the issue that queries with the `where <string>` clause return wrong results
    - (dup) Fix the issue that TiFlash might panic when an MPP query is stopped
    - Fix the unexpected error of `Unexpected type of column: Nullable(Nothing)`

+ TiKV

>     - Fix the bug that TiKV cannot delete a range of data (`unsafe_destroy_range` cannot be executed) when GC worker is busy [#11903](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11903)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix the bug that TiKV cannot delete a range of data (`unsafe_destroy_range` cannot be executed) when the GC worker is busy [#11903](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11903)
```

    - Fix the issue that destroying a peer might cause high latency [#10210](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10210)

>     - Fix a bug that `any_value` function returns wrong result when regions are empty [#11735](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11735)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix a bug that the `any_value` function returns wrong result when regions are empty [#11735](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11735)
```

>     - Fix the issue that deleting an uninitialized replica might cause to create a stale replica again. [#10533](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10533)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that deleting an uninitialized replica might cause an old replica to be recreated [#10533](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10533)
```

>     - Fix metadata corruption issue when `Prepare Merge` is triggered after the new election is finished but the isolated peer is not informed [#11526](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11526)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix the metadata corruption issue when `Prepare Merge` is triggered after the new election is finished but the isolated peer is not informed [#11526](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11526)
```

    - Fix the dead lock issue that happens occasionally when coroutines run too fast  [#11549](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11549)
    - Avoid the potential dead lock and memory leak issues when profiling flame graphs [#11108](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11108)

>     - Fix the issue that retrying prewrite requests in the pessimistic transaction mode might cause the risk of data inconsistency in rare cases [#11187](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11187)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix the data inconsistency issue when retrying a prewrite request in pessimistic transactions [#11187](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11187)
```

    - Fix the issue that some coroutines leak in `resolved_ts` [#10965](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10965)
    - Avoid the false "GC can not work" alert under low write flow [#9910](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/9910)
    - Fix a bug that tikv-ctl cannot return the correct region-related information [#11393](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11393)
    - Fix the issue that a down TiKV node causes the resolved timestamp to lag [#11351](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11351)
    - Fix a panic issue that occurs when Region merge, ConfChange, and Snapshot happen at the same time in extreme conditions [#11475](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11475)

>     - Fix the issue that TiKV cannot detect the memory lock when TiKV perform a reverse table scan [#11440](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11440)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiKV cannot detect the memory lock when TiKV performs a reverse table scan [#11440](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11440)
```

    (dup) - Fix the issue that TiCDC adds scan retries frequently due to the Congest error [#11082](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11082)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that batch messages are too large in Raft client implementation [#9714](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/9714)
    (dup) - Collapse some uncommon storage-related metrics in Grafana dashboard [#11681](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11681)

+ PD

>     - Fix the bug that the region scatterer may generate the schedule with too few peers. [#4565](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4565)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
    - Fix a bug that the region scatterer might generate a schedule with too few peers [#4565](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4565)
```

>     - Fix the bug that region statistics are not updated after `flow-round-by-digit` change. [#4295](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4295)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
   (dup) - Fix the issue that Region statistics are not affected by `flow-round-by-digit` [#4295](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4295)
```

>     - Fix the issue of negative sign when the decimal divide result is zero [#29586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29586)
>     - Increase the speed of inserting SST files by moving the verification process to the `Import` thread pool from the `Apply` thread pool [#11239](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11239)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of negative sign when the decimal divide result is zero [#29586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29586)
```

>     - Fix the issue of negative sign when the decimal divide result is zero [#29586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29586)
>     - Increase the speed of inserting SST files by moving the verification process to the `Import` thread pool from the `Apply` thread pool [#11239](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11239)
>     - Fix a memory leak caused by monitoring data of statistics threads [#11195](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11195)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of negative sign when the decimal divide result is zero [#29586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29586)
    - Fix a memory leak caused by monitoring data of statistics threads [#11195](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11195)
```

    (dup) - Fix slow leader election caused by stucked region syncer [#3936](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3936)
    (dup) - Support that the evict leader scheduler can schedule regions with unhealthy peers [#4093](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4093)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that the hotspot cache cannot be cleared when the Region heartbeat is less than 60 seconds [#4390](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4390)
    (dup) - Fix a panic issue that occurs after the TiKV node is removed [#4344](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4344)
    (dup) - Fix the issue that operator can get blocked due to down store [#3353](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3353)

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

>         - Fix a bug that MySQL sink will generate duplicated replace SQL if `batch-replace-enable` is disabled [#4501](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4501)
>         - Fix kv client cached region metric could be negative [#4300](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4300)
>         - Fix the problem that TiCDC cannot send messages when `min.insync.replicas` is less than `replication-factor` [#3994](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3994)
>         - Fix the potential panic issue that occurs when changefeed info is removed from etcd [#3128](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3128)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that MySQL sink will generate duplicated replace SQL if `batch-replace-enable` is disabled [#4501](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4501)
        - Fix a bug that `kv client cached region metric` might be negative [#4300](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4300)
        - Fix the problem that TiCDC cannot send messages when `min.insync.replicas` is less than `replication-factor` [#3994](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3994)
        - Fix the potential panic issue that occurs when changefeed info is removed from etcd [#3128](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3128)
```

>         - Fix a bug that checkpointTs advances unexpectedly [#3545](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3545)
>         - Fix a bug that changefeed gets stuck when table scheduling [#4055](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4055)
>         - Fix syntax error if DDL has a special comment [#3755](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3755)
>         - Fix a bug in EtcdWorker that could hang the owner or processor [#3750](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3750)

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
(dup) - Fix the issue of potential data loss caused by inaccurate checkpoint [#3545](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3545)
 (dup) - Fix the potential issue that the deadlock causes a replication task to get stuck [#4055](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4055)
 (dup) - Fix the issue that special comments in DDL statements cause the replication task to stop [#3755](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3755)
        - Fix a bug in EtcdWorker that could hang the owner or processor [#3750](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3750)
```

>         - Fix the issue of stopped changefeed resuming automatically after upgrading cluster [#3473](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3473)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that `stopped` changefeeds resume automatically after a cluster upgrade [#3473](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3473)
```

        - Fix a data type compatibility issue between TiCDC and TiDB amend mechanism [#3793](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3793)
        - Fix data inconsistency caused by TiCDC default value padding exceptions [#3918](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3918) [#3929](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3929)

>         - Fix a bug that owner get stuck when PD leader shutdowns and transfers to new node [#3615](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3615)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that an owner gets stuck when a PD leader shuts down and transfers to a new node [#3615](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3615)
```

>         - Fix kvclient takes too long time to recover when TiKV node shutdown  [#3191](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3191)
>         - Nond [#2983](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2983)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that kvclient takes too long time to recover when TiKV node shuts down  [#3191](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3191)
```

>         - Reduce the time for the KV client to recover when a TiKV store is down [#3191](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3191)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
```

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Set the default value of `max-message-bytes` to 10M [#4041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4041)

## Feature enhancements

+ TiDB

    - Support partition pruning for the built-in `IN` expression in Range partition tables [#26739](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26739)
    - Improve the accuracy of tracking memory usage when `IndexJoin` is executed [#28650](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28650)

+ TiKV

    - Update the proc filesystem (procfs) to v0.12.0 [#11702](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11702)
    - Improve the error log report in the raft client module [#11959](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11959)
    - Increase the speed of inserting SST files by moving the verification process to the `Import` thread pool from the `Apply` thread pool [#11239](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11239)

+ PD

    - Speed up the exit process of schedulers [#4146](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4146)

+ TiFlash

    - Support pushing down `ADDDATE()` and `DATE_ADD()` to TiFlash

>     - Support pushing down `INET6_ATON` and `INET6_NTOA` to TiFlash
>     - Support pushing down `INET_ATON` and `INET_NTOA` to TiFlash

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Support pushing down `INET6_ATON()` and `INET6_NTOA()` to TiFlash
    - Support pushing down `INET_ATON()` and `INET_NTOA()` to TiFlash
```

>     - Increase the max supported depth of expression or plan tree in a DAG request from `100` to `200`

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Increase the max supported depth of an expression or a plan tree in a DAG request from `100` to `200`
```

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Add the exponential backoff mechanism for restarting a changefeed. [#3329](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3329)
        - Reduce the replication latency when replicating many tables [#3900](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3900)
        - Add metrics for observing the remaining time of incremental scan [#2985](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2985)
        - Reduce the count of "EventFeed retry rate limited" logs [#4006](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4006)
        - Add more Promethous and Grafana monitoring metrics and alerts, including `no owner alert`, `mounter row`, `table sink total row`, and `buffer sink total row` [#4054](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4054) [#1606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1606)
        - Optimize rate limiting control on TiKV reloads to reduce gPRC congestion during changefeed initialization [#3110](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3110)
        - Reduce the time for the KV client to recover when a TiKV store is down [#3191](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3191)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

>     - Fix a memory leak bug that occurs when the system variable `tidb_analyze_version` is set to `2` [#29305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29305)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix a memory leak bug that occurs when the system variable `tidb_analyze_version` is set to `2` [#32499](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32499)
```

    - Fix the issue that the `MaxDays` and `MaxBackups` configurations do not take effect for the slow log [#25716](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/25716)
    - Fix the issue that executing the `INSERT ... SELECT ... ON DUPLICATE KEY UPDATE` statement gets panic [#28078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28078)
    - Fix the wrong result that might occur when performing `JOIN` on `ENUM` type columns [#27831](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27831)
    - Fix the issue that INDEX HASH JOIN returns the `send on closed channel` error [#31129](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31129)

>     - Fix the issue that using the [`BatchCommands`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#max-batch-size) API might block sending TiDB requests to TiKV in some rare cases [#27678](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27678)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that using the [`BatchCommands`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#max-batch-size) API might block sending TiDB requests to TiKV in some rare cases [#32500](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/32500)
```

    - Fix the issue that the optimizer might cache invalid plans for `join` in some cases [#28087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28087)
    - Fix wrong results of the `microsecond` and `hour` functions in vectorized expressions [#29244](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29244) [#28643](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28643)
    - Fix the TiDB panic when executing the `ALTER TABLE.. ADD INDEX` statement in some cases [#27687](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27687)
    - Fix a bug that the availability detection of MPP node does not work in some corner cases [#3118](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/3118)
    - Fix the `DATA RACE` issue when assigning `MPP task ID` [#27952](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27952)
    - Fix the `INDEX OUT OF RANGE` error for a MPP query after deleting an empty `dual table` [#28250](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28250)
    - Fix the issue of false positive error log `invalid cop task execution summaries length` for MPP queries [#1791](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/1791)

+ TiKV

>     - Fix the bug that TiKV cannot delete a range of data (`unsafe_destroy_range` cannot be executed) when the GC worker is busy [#11903](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11903)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix a bug that TiKV cannot delete a range of data (`unsafe_destroy_range` cannot be executed) when the GC worker is busy [#11903](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11903)
```

    - Fix the issue that destroying a peer might cause high latency [#10210](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10210)
    - Fix a bug that the `any_value` function returns wrong result when regions are empty [#11735](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11735)
    - Fix the issue that deleting an uninitialized replica might cause an old replica to be recreated [#10533](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10533)

>     - Fix the metadata corruption issue when `Prepare Merge` is triggered after the new election is finished but the isolated peer is not informed [#11526](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11526)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix the metadata corruption issue when `Prepare Merge` is triggered after a new election is finished but the isolated peer is not informed [#11526](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11526)
```

    - Fix the dead lock issue that happens occasionally when coroutines run too fast  [#11549](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11549)

>     - Avoid the potential dead lock and memory leak issues when profiling flame graphs [#11108](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11108)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix the potential deadlock and memory leak issues when profiling flame graphs [#11108](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11108)
```

>     - Fix the data inconsistency issue when retrying a prewrite request in pessimistic transactions [#11187](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11187)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix the rare data inconsistency issue when retrying a prewrite request in pessimistic transactions [#11187](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11187)
```

    - Fix a bug that the configuration `resource-metering.enabled` does not work [#11235](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11235)
    - Fix the issue that some coroutines leak in `resolved_ts` [#10965](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10965)

>     - Avoid the false "GC can not work" alert under low write flow [#9910](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/9910)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of reporting false "GC can not work" alert under low write flow [#9910](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/9910)
```

>     - Fix a bug that tikv-ctl cannot return the correct region-related information [#11393](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11393)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix a bug that tikv-ctl cannot return the correct Region-related information [#11393](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11393)
```

    - Fix the issue that a down TiKV node causes the resolved timestamp to lag [#11351](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11351)
    - Fix a panic issue that occurs when Region merge, ConfChange, and Snapshot happen at the same time in extreme conditions [#11475](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11475)
    - Fix the issue that TiKV cannot detect the memory lock when TiKV performs a reverse table scan [#11440](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11440)
    - Fix the issue of negative sign when the decimal divide result is zero [#29586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29586)

>     - Fix a memory leak caused by monitoring data of statistics threads [#11195](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11195)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix a memory leak caused by the monitoring data of statistics threads [#11195](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11195)
```

        - Fix the TiCDC replication interruption issue when multiple TiKVs crash or during a forced restart [#3288](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3288)
        - Fix the memory leak issue after processing DDLs [#3174](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3174)
        - Fix the issue that changefeed does not fail fast enough when the ErrGCTTLExceeded error occurs [#3111](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3111)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC replication task might terminate when the upstream TiDB instance unexpectedly exits [#3061](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3061)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC process might panic when TiKV sends duplicate requests to the same Region [#2386](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2386)
        - Fix the issue that Kafka may send excessively large messages by setting the default value of `max-message-bytes` to `10M` [#3081](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3081)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC sync task might pause when an error occurs during writing a Kafka message [#2978](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2978)

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - Fix the potential issue that Regions might be unevenly distributed after a restore operation is finished [#30425](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30425)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Fix the potential issue that Regions might be unevenly distributed after a restore operation is finished [#30425](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/30425) [#31034](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/31034)
```

    - Improve the accuracy of tracking memory usage when `IndexJoin` is executed [#28650](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28650)

+ TiKV

    - Update the proc filesystem (procfs) to v0.12.0 [#11702](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11702)
    - Improve the error log report in the raft client module [#11959](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11959)
    - Increase the speed of inserting SST files by moving the verification process to the `Import` thread pool from the `Apply` thread pool [#11239](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11239)

+ TiFlash

    - Support pushing down `ADDDATE()` and `DATE_ADD()` to TiFlash
    - Support pushing down `INET6_ATON` and `INET6_NTOA` to TiFlash
    - Support pushing down `INET_ATON` and `INET_NTOA` to TiFlash
    - Increase the max supported depth of expression or plan tree in a DAG request from `100` to `200`

+ PD

    - Speed up the exit process of schedulers [#4146](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4146)

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Add the exponential backoff mechanism for restarting a changefeed. [#3329](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3329)

>         - Add metrics for observing the remaining time of incremental scan [#2985](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2985)
>         - Reduce the count of "EventFeed retry rate limited" logs [#4006](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4006)
>         - Reduce the replication latency when replicating many tables [#3900](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3900)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Reduce the replication latency when replicating many tables [#3900](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3900)
        - Add metrics for observing the remaining time of incremental scan [#2985](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2985)
        - Reduce the count of "EventFeed retry rate limited" logs [#4006](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4006)
```
Move issue 3900 forward to the second place as it is in Chinese.

    - Fix the issue that the optimizer might cache invalid plans for `join` in some cases [#28087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28087)
    - Fix wrong results of the `microsecond` and `hour` functions in vectorized expressions [#29244](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29244) [#28643](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28643)
    - Fix the TiDB panic when executing the `ALTER TABLE.. ADD INDEX` statement in some cases [#27687](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27687)
    - Fix a bug that the availability detection of MPP node does not work in some corner cases [#3118](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/3118)
    - Fix the `DATA RACE` issue when assigning `MPP task ID` [#27952](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27952)
    - Fix the `INDEX OUT OF RANGE` error for a MPP query after deleting an empty `dual table` [#28250](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28250)
    - Fix the issue of false positive error log `invalid cop task execution summaries length` for MPP queries [#1791](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/1791)

> + PD
> 
>     (dup) - Speed up the exit process of schedulers [#4146](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4146)
> 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
```

        - Fix the issue that Avro sink does not support parsing JSON type columns [#3624](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3624)
        - Fix the negative value error in the changefeed checkpoint lag [#3010](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3010)
        - Fix the OOM issue in the container environment [#1798](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/1798)
        - Fix the TiCDC replication interruption issue when multiple TiKVs crash or during a forced restart [#3288](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3288)
        - Fix the memory leak issue after processing DDLs [#3174](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3174)
        - Fix the issue that changefeed does not fail fast enough when the ErrGCTTLExceeded error occurs [#3111](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3111)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC replication task might terminate when the upstream TiDB instance unexpectedly exits [#3061](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3061)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC process might panic when TiKV sends duplicate requests to the same Region [#2386](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2386)

>         - Fix the issue that the volume of Kafka messages generated by TiCDC is not constrained by `max-message-size` [#2962](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/2962)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
```

    (dup) - Fix the TiDB panic when executing the `ALTER TABLE.. ADD INDEX` statement in some cases [#27687](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27687)
    (dup) - Fix wrong results of the `hour` function in vectorized expression [#28643](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28643)
    (dup) - Fix a bug that the availability detection of MPP node does not work in some corner cases [#3118](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/3118)
    (dup) - Fix the `DATA RACE` issue when assigning `MPP task ID` [#27952](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27952)
    (dup) - Fix the `INDEX OUT OF RANGE` error for a MPP query after deleting an empty `dual table` [#28250](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28250)
    (dup) - Fix the issue of false positive error log `invalid cop task execution summaries length` for MPP queries [#1791](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/issues/1791)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that the `str_to_date()` function incorrectly handles leading zeros when parsing microseconds
    - Fix the TiFlash crash problem when the memory limit is enabled

>     - Fix the inconsistent behavior of the `unix_timestamp` function between TiFlash and TiDB/MySQL when the timestamp is earlier than `1970-01-01 00:00:01 UTC`

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - (dup) Fix the issue that when an input time is earlier than 1970-01-01 00:00:01 UTC, the behavior of `unix_timestamp` is inconsistent with that of TiDB or MySQL
```

    - Fix the potential data inconsistency caused by widening the primary key column when the primary key is handle
    - Fix the overflow bug and the issue of reporting `Can't compare` error when comparing data in the `DECIMAL` data type
    - Fix the unexpected error of `3rd arguments of function substringUTF8 must be constants.`
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash fails to start on platforms without the `nsl` library
    - Fix the overflow bug when casting data to the `DECIMAL` data type

>     - Fix the inconsistent behavior of the `castStringAsReal` function between TiFlash and TiDB/TiKV

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - (dup) Fix the issue that the `castStringAsReal` behavior is inconsistent in TiFlash and in TiDB/TiKV
```

>     - Fix the bug of random `EstablishMPPConnection` failures after the TiFlash server restarts

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - (dup) Fix the issue that TiFlash might return the `EstablishMPPConnection` error after it is restarted
```

    - Fix the issue that obsolete data cannot be reclaimed after setting the number of TiFlash replicas to 0

>     - Fix the inconsistent behavior of the `CastStringAsDecimal` function between TiFlash and TiDB/TiKV

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - (dup) Fix the issue that the `CastStringAsDecimal` behavior is inconsistent in TiFlash and in TiDB/TiKV
```

>     - Fix the incorrect result of `where <string>` that occurs when the string is converted to an integer

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - (dup) Fix the issue that queries with the `where <string>` clause return wrong results
```

>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash randomly crashes after an MPP query is terminated

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - (dup) Fix the issue that TiFlash might panic when an MPP query is stopped
```

        - Fix the problem that TiCDC cannot send messages when `min.insync.replicas` is less than `replication-factor` [#3994](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3994)
        - Fix the potential panic issue that occurs when changefeed info is removed from etcd [#3128](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3128)
        - Fix a bug that checkpointTs advances unexpectedly [#3545](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3545)
        - Fix a bug that changefeed gets stuck when table scheduling [#4055](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/4055)
        - Fix syntax error if DDL has a special comment [#3755](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3755)
        - Fix a bug in EtcdWorker that could hang the owner or processor [#3750](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3750)
        - Fix the issue of stopped changefeed resuming automatically after upgrading cluster [#3473](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3473)
        - Fix a data type compatibility issue between TiCDC and TiDB amend mechanism [#3793](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3793)

>         - Fixed the data inconsistencies caused by TiCDC default value padding exceptions [#3918](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3918) [#3929](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3929)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Fix data inconsistency caused by TiCDC default value padding exceptions [#3918](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3918) [#3929](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/3929)
```
